README.md, before:

# naucse_render

Helper for converting course material in YAML/Markdown/Jupyter to
naucse.python.cz JSON API.


# Entrypoints

There are two public entrypoints: one for getting general course information;
the other for a subset of lessons.

(This separation means the content doesn't need to be rendered to get course
info.)

`naucse_render.get_course(course_slug, *, path='.', version=None)`

`naucse_render.get_lessons(lesson_slugs, vars=None, path='.')`

The `path` specifies the local filesystem path to the root of the repository
(i.e. parent directory of `courses`, `runs` and `lessons`).


# Installation & Usage

Install the latest released version from PyPI.
With an activated virtualenv, do:

```console
(venv)$ pip install naucse_render
```

For development, you can instead install in editable mode
with `dev` dependencies:

```console
(venv)$ pip install -e.[dev]
```

You can run naucse_render from the command line.
To “compile” a course to a directory of JSON metadata and static files:

```console
(venv)$ python -m naucse_render compile _built/
```

To output metadata for a course or individual lesson(s):

```console
(venv)$ python -m naucse_render get-course

(venv)$ python -m naucse_render get-lessons beginners/install beginners/venv-setup
```

By default, data is retreived from the current working directory.
Use the `--path` option to point naucse_render elsewhere.


## Tests

To run tests, install this package with development dependencies:

```console
(venv)$ pip install -e.[dev]
```

then run the tests with `pytest`:

```console
(venv)$ python -m pytest
```


# License

The code is licensed under the terms of the MIT license, see [LICENSE.MIT] file
for full text. By contributing code to this repository, you agree to have it
licensed under the same license.

[LICENSE.MIT]: https://github.com/pyvec/naucse.python.cz/blob/master/LICENSE.MIT


## Changelog

### naucse_render 1.7

* Courses may now be specified with a "flat" file like
  `courses/<course-slug>.yml`, rather than a `info.yml` file nested in a
  directory.


### naucse_render 1.6

* Courses can now specify `extra_lessons`, a list of lessons that
  `compile` will include in its output even if they don't appear in
  session materials.
  This is more explicit than relying on links in the course content
  (which would need to be parsed any time this info is needed, making
  things slower).


### naucse_render 1.5

* A new subcommand, `compile`, creates a directory with course data
  and supporting files.

* API version 0.3
  * A course may have information about "edit info", specifying where the
    course's sources can be edited. (This is only set when compiling
    courses; in other cases, the caller should know where the code lives.)

* The `slug` is now optional; if not given (or None), the data is loaded
  from `course.yml` (in the given `path`, by default the current directory)
  rather than a file in `runs/` or `courses/`.


### naucse_render 1.4

Compatible with  `nbconvert` 6.0.


### naucse_render 1.3

* Lesson directories without data are ignored
  (https://github.com/pyvec/naucse_render/issues/15)
* API version 0.2
* Subpages now have subtitles
  * Non-`index` subpages may optionally have a `subtitle`. For example,
    a lesson named "Installation" might have a OS-specific subpage with the
    subtitle "Linux".
  * If the `title` of a non-`index` subpage may now be missing in the input.
    In that case, the `subtitle` must be present, and the `title` is generated
    as `"{lesson title} – {page subtitle}"`.
* Timezone information is passed through
* Mappings read from YAML must have unique keys.
* Subpages may now be linked with relative URLs: `./page`, just like
  other lessons can be linked with `../lesson` or `../../category/lesson`.
  ("Short" linking to subpages of other lessons, like ~~`../lesson/page`~~,
  still doesn't work.)


### naucse_render 1.2

* API version 0.1
* Serial "numbers" are now generated for sessions.
  * Serials are strings (or None). Usually they are numeric (like `'1'`),
    and in the source YAML they may be specified as int.
    But, for example, an appendix could use Roman numerals: `i`, `ii`, `iii`.
  * When a serial is not given in the source YAML explicitly, it is
    auto-generated as the previous serial plus 1 (or from `1` at the start).
    Serials specified as str (or None) prevent this auto-generation.
  * For courses with only one session, the serial is not auto-generated.


### naucse_render 1.1

* Make it possible to use data from a YAML file in lesson content
* Make output the same on Windows as on "Unixy" systems


### naucse_render 1.0

* Source files are always reported as relative paths
* YAML files are reloaded when they change
* Added integration tests


### naucse_render 0.x

0.x should successfully render courses hosted on naucse.python.cz
prior to 2019.

The format of the source files grew organically, so there is no attempt here
to document it.

Commit message:

Add `get_course_slugs` function and `ls` CLI command

README.md, after:

# naucse_render

Helper for converting course material in YAML/Markdown/Jupyter to
naucse.python.cz JSON API.


# Entrypoints

Get a list of available courses:

`naucse_render.get_course_slugs(*, path='.')`

Get general course information:

`naucse_render.get_course(course_slug, *, path='.', version=None)`

Get information about lessons:

`naucse_render.get_lessons(lesson_slugs, vars=None, path='.')`

Compile a given course into a directory of JSON & HTML files:

`def compile(slug=None, *, path='.', destination, edit_info=None)`

The `path` specifies the local filesystem path to the root of the repository
(i.e. parent directory of `courses`, `runs` and `lessons`).


# Installation & CLI Usage

Install the latest released version from PyPI.
With an activated virtualenv, do:

```console
(venv)$ pip install naucse_render
```

For development, you can instead install in editable mode
with `dev` dependencies:

```console
(venv)$ pip install -e.[dev]
```

You can run naucse_render from the command line.
To “compile” a course to a directory of JSON metadata and static files:

```console
(venv)$ python -m naucse_render compile _built/
```

To output metadata for a course or individual lesson(s):

```console
(venv)$ python -m naucse_render get-course

(venv)$ python -m naucse_render get-lessons beginners/install beginners/venv-setup
```

By default, data is retreived from the current working directory.
Use the `--path` option to point naucse_render elsewhere.

You can use `--help` for more info.


## Tests

To run tests, install this package with development dependencies:

```console
(venv)$ pip install -e.[dev]
```

then run the tests with `pytest`:

```console
(venv)$ python -m pytest
```


# License

The code is licensed under the terms of the MIT license, see [LICENSE.MIT] file
for full text. By contributing code to this repository, you agree to have it
licensed under the same license.

[LICENSE.MIT]: https://github.com/pyvec/naucse.python.cz/blob/master/LICENSE.MIT


## Changelog

### naucse_render 1.7

* Added the function `naucse.get_course_slugs()` and the CLI subcommand
  `naucse_render ls`, which return a list of courses naucse_render can load
  from the given directory.
* Courses may now be specified with a "flat" file like
  `courses/<course-slug>.yml`, rather than a `info.yml` file nested in a
  directory.


### naucse_render 1.6

* Courses can now specify `extra_lessons`, a list of lessons that
  `compile` will include in its output even if they don't appear in
  session materials.
  This is more explicit than relying on links in the course content
  (which would need to be parsed any time this info is needed, making
  things slower).


### naucse_render 1.5

* A new subcommand, `compile`, creates a directory with course data
  and supporting files.

* API version 0.3
  * A course may have information about "edit info", specifying where the
    course's sources can be edited. (This is only set when compiling
    courses; in other cases, the caller should know where the code lives.)

* The `slug` is now optional; if not given (or None), the data is loaded
  from `course.yml` (in the given `path`, by default the current directory)
  rather than a file in `runs/` or `courses/`.


### naucse_render 1.4

Compatible with  `nbconvert` 6.0.


### naucse_render 1.3

* Lesson directories without data are ignored
  (https://github.com/pyvec/naucse_render/issues/15)
* API version 0.2
* Subpages now have subtitles
  * Non-`index` subpages may optionally have a `subtitle`. For example,
    a lesson named "Installation" might have a OS-specific subpage with the
    subtitle "Linux".
  * If the `title` of a non-`index` subpage may now be missing in the input.
    In that case, the `subtitle` must be present, and the `title` is generated
    as `"{lesson title} – {page subtitle}"`.
* Timezone information is passed through
* Mappings read from YAML must have unique keys.
* Subpages may now be linked with relative URLs: `./page`, just like
  other lessons can be linked with `../lesson` or `../../category/lesson`.
  ("Short" linking to subpages of other lessons, like ~~`../lesson/page`~~,
  still doesn't work.)


### naucse_render 1.2

* API version 0.1
* Serial "numbers" are now generated for sessions.
  * Serials are strings (or None). Usually they are numeric (like `'1'`),
    and in the source YAML they may be specified as int.
    But, for example, an appendix could use Roman numerals: `i`, `ii`, `iii`.
  * When a serial is not given in the source YAML explicitly, it is
    auto-generated as the previous serial plus 1 (or from `1` at the start).
    Serials specified as str (or None) prevent this auto-generation.
  * For courses with only one session, the serial is not auto-generated.


### naucse_render 1.1

* Make it possible to use data from a YAML file in lesson content
* Make output the same on Windows as on "Unixy" systems


### naucse_render 1.0

* Source files are always reported as relative paths
* YAML files are reloaded when they change
* Added integration tests


### naucse_render 0.x

0.x should successfully render courses hosted on naucse.python.cz
prior to 2019.

The format of the source files grew organically, so there is no attempt here
to document it.
